you
this lecture is about the collaborative
children in this lecture we're going to
continue the discussion of recommender
systems in particular we're going to
look at the approach of collaborative
filtering you have seen this slide
before where we talked about the two
strategies to answer the basic question
when user you like item X in the
previous lecture we looked at the item
similarity that's content-based
filtering in this lecture we're going to
look at the user similarity this is a
different strategy called a
collaborative filter so first what is
collaborative filtering it is to make
filtering decisions for individual user
based on the judgments of other users
and that is to say we will infer
individuals interest or preferences from
that of other similar users so the
general idea is a following given a user
you we're going to first find the
similar users you want through um and
then we're going to predict the use
preferences based on the Preferences of
these similar users you want through
your M now you know use of similarity
here can be charged based on their
similarity in preferences on a common
set of items now here you can see the
exact content of item doesn't really
matter we're going to look at the only
the relationship between the users and
items so this means this approach is
very general it can be applied to any
items not just the text options so this
approach it would work well under the
following assumptions the first users
with the same interest will have similar
preferences
second the users with similar
preferences probably share the same
interest so for example if the interest
of the user is in information retrieval
then we can infer the user probably
favored cigar papers and so those who
are interested in information retrieval
research it probably all fela see
that's assumption that we make and this
assumption is true then it would help
collaborative filtering to work well we
can also assume that if we see people
favor single favors then we can infer
their interest is probably information
retrieval so in these simple examples it
seems to make sense and in many cases
such assumption actually doesn't make
sense
so another something we have to make is
that there are sufficient and a large
number of user preferences available to
us so for example if you see a lot of
ratings of users for movies and those
indicate their preferences on movies and
if you have a lot of such data then
collaborative filtering can be very
effective if not there will be a problem
and that's often called a cold start
problem that means you don't have many
preferences available so the system
could not afford to take advantage of
collaborative filtering yet so let's
look after the character filtering
problem in a more formal way and so this
picture shows that we are in general
considering a lot of users showing we're
showing em users here so you want
through um and we're also considering a
number of objects let's say n objects in
order to pass along through o N and then
we will assume that the users will be
able to charge those objects and the
user could for example give ratings to
those items for example those items
could be movies could be product and
then the users would give ratings 1
through 5 let's say so what you see here
is that we have shown some ratings
available for some combinations so some
users have watched some movies they have
greatly those movies they obviously
won't be able to watch all the movies
and some users may actually only watch a
few movies so this is in general
sparse matrix so many item many entries
have unknown values and what's
interesting here is we could potentially
infer the value of element in this
matrix based on other values and that's
actually the central question in
collaborative filtering and that is we
assume there's a unknown function here F
that would map a pair of a user and
object to a rating and we have observed
the some values of this function and we
want to infer the value of this function
for other pairs that we that don't have
values available here so this is very
very similar to other machine learning
problems where we know the values of the
function on some training data set and
we hope to predict the values of this
function on some test data right so this
is a function approximation how can we
figure out the function based on the
observe the ratings so this is the setup
now there are many approaches to solving
this problem and in fact this is a very
active research area or reason that
there are special conferences dedicated
to the problem Rexes
major conference devoted to problem
you